# Art Club Flyer (fall 2021)

This fake event flyer was created as an assignment for an Integrating Writing and Design course. The images used for the flyer were pulled from Unsplash, which allows for free use of images commercially and non-commercially without attribution. The following statement on the flyer's creation is pulled from the course's final portfolio glass on this particular design:

"The event flyer assignment was an exercise in proximity, alignment, contrast, and repetition, with the end goal of making a letter-size flyer for an event of our choice. As a board member of ARTificial @ Pitt, I decided to make a flyer for a larger event idea (a DIY tote bag night) we were thinking of doing this semester and created hypothetical event information around the concept. The original version was aesthetically pleasing to me, as I opted for a clean sans serif with a minimalist color palette of black, white, and neutral brown tones. I used repetition of one neutral brown in the club logo, punctuation, and line element to make the piece feel cohesive. The poster was well aligned due to guides, and I arranged the mandatory information pieces with thoughtful use of proximity to show the event information as one related cluster, while still making divisions between the what, when, and where information clear. In terms of creativity, I liked the moment of playfulness where I twisted letters individually to follow the curves of the tote bag image I was using (to make it look like the letters were part of the bag). However, the initial flyer lacked a big consideration: audience. In the midterm conference, it was mentioned that the poster didn’t quite fit the vibe of a DIY event, which is true. It seemed more like a poster advertising a new drop for an exclusive fashion brand. The revision ultimately was an overhaul of tone.

I started by choosing new images that felt less high-fashion and more crafty. I isolated the hands holding the paintbrushes in Photoshop, then took both that image and the new tote bag image to Illustrator. Using the low-fidelity image trace function, I was able to get an interesting, paint-by-numbers effect on the images. I left them as distinct layers to play with a collaged feel, as I felt it fit the crafty nature of the event. I did remove the club logo from the poster, as I felt more visuals would overwhelm this version of the flyer. Given that the hosting club and event title were featured clearly at the top, I felt the logo was not wholly necessary. I also chose fonts that were less minimalist. I found a unique typeface called Zooja Light Pro that looked hand painted and contrasted that with a simpler slab serif (Yorkten Slab) for the mandatory information. The slab serif offered a higher contrast than the light sans serif type used in the original flyer, which I felt made a significant improvement in readability. While on the topic of text, I also changed the slogan to something simpler and more fitting of the event. The original header, “secure the bag”, reinforced the exclusive, fashion feel of the first poster. I opted for a much more straightforward header this time: “Ready. Set. Paint.” This captured the goal of the event much more appropriately by emphasizing the painting aspect. I tried to keep with the successes of my original poster’s playful sprinkling of an accent color, so I pulled a sunflower yellow from the hand image and used that throughout for punctuation coloring. It added a paint splatter-like effect, distributing across the flyer to create repetition that still felt surprising and lighthearted. I also took the dark brown from the tote bag image to use for text box backgrounds, so that both images were tied to the text color palette equally. 

I think these choices created a flyer that was much more considerate of my audience and fitting of the event, moving beyond my personal aesthetic preferences. It was a good exercise to redo this poster completely outside of my comfort zone, given that as a professional designer, there will be times when I will have to sacrifice my preferences for the client’s."

This project was nominated for and featured in Pitt's 2022 [Digital Media Showcase](https://dmap.pitt.edu/showcase).
